---
agincourt_gambit: image, landscape-orientation, xkcd
---
A chessboard. Black pawns are depicted with longbows, taking down white knights as they advance, without any black pieces needing to move.  

@caption: bottom, center
THE AGINCOURT GAMBIT

@chessboard:
A standard chessboard, oriented with white at the left. All the pieces are present.

@chessboard.knights.white:
White knights are positioned fallen on the board, at f3 and c3, symbolizing their defeat.

@chessboard.style:
It is drawn in a simple, hand-drawn style, with slight imperfections. Alternating light and gray squares with uniform texture.

@perspective: isometric
Slight top-down tilt.

@image:
White background, the chessboard is framed with a thin black line, at the edge of the image, except for 8% margin at the bottom. The caption is placed below the frame.

@chessboard.pgn:
1. Nf3 ... ↘↘↘ 2. Nc3 ... ↘↘↘ 0-1

@chessboard.efn:
rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/2N2N2/PPPPPPPP/R1BQKB1R w KQkq - 0 1

@arrows: small, black  
Eight black arrows are shown, around and hitting each white knight.

@longbows: black, small  
Each black pawn is depicted with a longbow, in various positions.

@alttext: !visible  
1. Nf3 ... ↘↘↘ 2. Nc3 ... ↘↘↘ 0-1

@explanation: !visible  
This comic is comparing the opening moves of the game of chess to the opening moves of the Battle of Agincourt, which was fought between the English and the French in the Hundred Years War. In the battle, just like in the comic, the English used their longbowmen effectively, neutralizing the French knights and infantry. The two pieces that are moved out of the white side of the board are both the pieces known as the knights. White moves first in chess, and in the actual battle, the French knights on horseback attacked first; the English being the black pieces may also be a reference to Edward the Black Prince, who was a prominent figure in an earlier stage of the Hundred Years War. As you can see, the pawns (foot soldiers) on the right side of the chess board have bows.

In chess notation, Nf3 and Nc3 are followed by a barrage of arrows, leading to Black's victory.
